README.md, before:

sfit
====

Python extension for period finding using "least-squares periodogram"
with simultaneous linear external parameter decorrelation.  This is a
rewrite done for a student project based on a much older (roughly 2004
vintage) C program used for my thesis and some publications prior to
2014.

The computationally intensive part of the calculation (grid of
sin/cos) is done in parallel using pthreads.

Installation procedure should be standard setup.py as for most Python
modules.  Mac should be supported as well as Linux but I don't run a
Mac any more so it's not tested regularly.

We use numpy's internal LAPACK and while this usually works I've had
trouble with some peculiar numpy installs built without LAPACK or on
systems such as Debian-based distributions where numpy was installed
from a package but LAPACK isn't available.  The latter problem might
be fixed by installing the appropriate LAPACK packages using a command
like "apt-get install liblapack-dev libatlas-base-dev".

It's not currently supported by the build system but it is possible to
use either my QR routines from "lib" also on this github account (by
removing -DUSE_LAPACK and altering the include and linker paths), or
another LAPACK if desired by playing with the build flags.

A simple demo script test.py is included for processing MEarth release
light curves.  Common mode and FWHM are decorrelated by default as
well as handling meridian flips and multiple light curves.  I usually
don't decorrelate FWHM, it's just there for demonstration purposes.
The script and plotting are very crude, apologies, this was the first
thing I wrote in Python.

Commit message:

Added vectorized calculation of sincos using the SLEEF library.
Currently only supports x86-64.  SLEEF supports more architectures but
some machine-specific CPU type detection and driver code needs to be
written and tested for each architecture and this was all I had access
to during development.

Availability of the library and intrinsics are checked at compile
time, and availability of the appropriate CPU features are checked at
runtime, so use in a mixed environment where the build machine doesn't
match the run machine should be supported.

The performance improvement on my i7-10700K workstation under test is
about 50% using the AVX2 variant, but note that AVX performance is
quite variable, particularly on older generation CPUs where use of
256-bit AVX floating point instructions has additional overhead and
can reduce the turbo boost frequency limit.

README.md, after:

sfit
====

Python extension for period finding using "least-squares periodogram"
with simultaneous linear external parameter decorrelation.  This is a
rewrite done for a student project based on a much older (roughly 2004
vintage) C program used for my thesis and some publications prior to
2014.

The computationally intensive part of the calculation (grid of
sin/cos) is done in parallel using pthreads.  The vectorized sincos
routines from the SLEEF library can optionally also be used to
further accelerate the calculation.  This is currently supported on
x86-64 machines but other architectures might be added if I have
access to suitable hardware and the vectorization is worthwhile.

Installation procedure should be standard setup.py as for most Python
modules.  Mac should be supported as well as Linux but I don't run a
Mac any more so it's not tested regularly.  To build with SLEEF this
needs to be visible to distutils when setup.py is executed; on modern
Debian or similar systems where there is a package available, this can
be installed using a command like "apt-get install libsleef-dev".

We use numpy's internal LAPACK and while this usually works I've had
trouble with some peculiar numpy installs built without LAPACK or on
systems such as Debian-based distributions where numpy was installed
from a package but LAPACK isn't available.  The latter problem might
be fixed by installing the appropriate LAPACK packages using a command
like "apt-get install liblapack-dev libatlas-base-dev".

It's not currently supported by the build system but it is possible to
use either my QR routines from "lib" also on this github account (by
removing -DUSE_LAPACK and altering the include and linker paths), or
another LAPACK if desired by playing with the build flags.

A simple demo script test.py is included for processing MEarth release
light curves.  Common mode and FWHM are decorrelated by default as
well as handling meridian flips and multiple light curves.  I usually
don't decorrelate FWHM, it's just there for demonstration purposes.
The script and plotting are very crude, apologies, this was the first
thing I wrote in Python.
